{% include disclaimer.html translated="no" translationOutdated="no" %}

Verification of the Monero binary files should be done prior to extracting,
installing, or using the Monero software. This is the only way to ensure
that you are using the official Monero binary. If you receive a fake binary
(eg. phishing, MITM, etc.), following this guide will protect you from being
tricked into using it.

Para proteger a integridade dos binários, a equipe Monero fornece uma lista
assinada criptograficamente contendo todos os hashes
[SHA256](https://pt.wikipedia.org/wiki/SHA-2) dos binários. Se o binário que
você baixou foi adulterado, ele irá produzir um [hash
diferente](https://pt.wikipedia.org/wiki/File_hashing) do que o hash
esperado para o arquivo.

This is a beginners guide for the Windows operating system and will make use
of GUIs almost exclusively. It will walk you through the process of
installing the required software, importing the signing key, downloading the
necessary files, and finally verifying that your binary is authentic.

## Table of Contents

1. [Gpg4win Installer](#using-gpg4win-installer)

2. [Import Signing Key](#monero-signing-key)

3. [Verify Hash File](#hash-file-verification)

4. [Verify Binary File](#binary-file-verification)

## Using Gpg4win Installer

This section will cover installing the cryptography software. Windows does
not come with the tools required to verify your binary. To install these
tools you can use the Gpg4win installer.

### Download Gpg4win

In a web browser, go to [gpg4win.org](https://gpg4win.org) and download the
installer by clicking the green button.

![gpg4win download
button](/img/resources/user-guides/en/verify_binary_windows_beginner/verify-win_gpg4win-site-downloadbutton.png)

You will be taken to a donation page. If you do not wish to donate select
`$0`, then you will be able to click `Download`.

![gpg4win site
donation](/img/resources/user-guides/en/verify_binary_windows_beginner/verify-win_gpg4win-site-donation.png)

Click `Save File`.

![gpg4win site save
file](/img/resources/user-guides/en/verify_binary_windows_beginner/verify-win_gpg4win-site-savefile.png)

Choose a download location, click `Save`.

![gpg4win site download
location](/img/resources/user-guides/en/verify_binary_windows_beginner/verify-win_gpg4win-site-savefile-location.png)

### Launch Gpg4win

When the download is finished, open the containing folder.

![gpg4win site open
folder](/img/resources/user-guides/en/verify_binary_windows_beginner/verify-win_gpg4win-site-savefile-openfolder.png)

Double click the downloaded gpg4win executable to launch.

![gpg4win
launch](/img/resources/user-guides/en/verify_binary_windows_beginner/verify-win_gpg4win-launch.png)

### Use Gpg4win Installer

You will be presented with a security verification screen, click `Run`.

![gpg4win installer
security](/img/resources/user-guides/en/verify_binary_windows_beginner/verify-win_gpg4win-install-security.png)

Select your language, click `OK`.

![gpg4win installer
language](/img/resources/user-guides/en/verify_binary_windows_beginner/verify-win_gpg4win-install-language.png)

A welcome screen will appear, click `Next`.

![gpg4win installer
welcome](/img/resources/user-guides/en/verify_binary_windows_beginner/verify-win_gpg4win-install-welcome.png)

Now you will see the component selection screen, you must at least leave
`Kleopatra` checked for this guide. Make your selections, click `Next`.

![gpg4win installer
components](/img/resources/user-guides/en/verify_binary_windows_beginner/verify-win_gpg4win-components.png)

It is best to leave the default installation location unless you know what
you are doing. Make your selections, click `Install`.

![gpg4win installer
location](/img/resources/user-guides/en/verify_binary_windows_beginner/verify-win_gpg4win-install.png)

Installation has completed, click `Next`.

![gpg4win installer
complete](/img/resources/user-guides/en/verify_binary_windows_beginner/verify-win_gpg4win-install-complete.png)

Click `Finish`.

![gpg4win installer
finish](/img/resources/user-guides/en/verify_binary_windows_beginner/verify-win_gpg4win-install-finish.png)

## Monero Signing Key

This section will cover downloading the Monero signing key, verifying that
the key is correct, and then importing the key to your keyring. The hash
file that will be used to verify your binary is cryptographically signed
with the Monero signing key. In order to check the validity of this file you
must have the public version of the signing key.

### Download Signing Key

In a web browser, go to [binaryFate's GPG
key](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/monero-project/monero/master/utils/gpg_keys/binaryfate.asc),
which he uses for signing the Monero binaries. Right click on the page,
choose `Save Page As`.

![getkey right
click](/img/resources/user-guides/en/verify_binary_windows_beginner/verify-win_getkey-rightclick.png)

Leave the default location, click `Save`.

![getkey save
file](/img/resources/user-guides/en/verify_binary_windows_beginner/verify-win_getkey-savefilename.png)

### Initialize Kleopatra

If this is your first time using Kleopatra you will have to create a key
pair for yourself.

Launch Kleopatra.

![kleo
launch](/img/resources/user-guides/en/verify_binary_windows_beginner/verify-win_kleopatra-launch.png)

### Import Signing Key

Click `Import`.

![kleo firstrun
import](/img/resources/user-guides/en/verify_binary_windows_beginner/verify-win_kleopatra-firstrun-importkey.png)

Enter the directory `Downloads`, select `binaryfate`, and click `Open`.

![kleo firstrun key
location](/img/resources/user-guides/en/verify_binary_windows_beginner/verify-win_kleopatra-firstrun-import-location.png)

Start the process of certifying the key by clicking `Yes`.

![kleo firstrun start
process](/img/resources/user-guides/en/verify_binary_windows_beginner/verify-win_kleopatra-firstrun-startverifyprocess.png)

### Create Key Pair

Start the process of key creation by clicking `Yes`.

![kleo firstrun start key
create](/img/resources/user-guides/en/verify_binary_windows_beginner/verify-win_kleopatra-firstrun-createkeysnow.png)

Fill in some details for `Name` and `Email`, click `Next`.

![kleo firstrun key
details](/img/resources/user-guides/en/verify_binary_windows_beginner/verify-win_kleopatra-firstrun-createkeydetails.png)

Verify details, click `Create`.

![kleo firstrun verify key
details](/img/resources/user-guides/en/verify_binary_windows_beginner/verify-win_kleopatra-firstrun-verifykeydetails.png)

Set a password, click `OK`.

![kleo firstrun set key
pass](/img/resources/user-guides/en/verify_binary_windows_beginner/verify-win_kleopatra-firstrun-createkeys-pinentry.png)

Click `Finish`.

![kleo firstrun finish create
key](/img/resources/user-guides/en/verify_binary_windows_beginner/verify-win_kleopatra-firstrun-keycreate-success.png)

### Verify Signing Key

Visually check that the fingerprint of the key belonging to binaryFate is
`81AC591FE9C4B65C5806AFC3F0AF4D462A0BDF92`.

![kleo certify
fingerprint](/img/resources/user-guides/en/verify_binary_windows_beginner/verify-win_kleopatra-certify-fingerprint.png)

If the fingerprint **DOES** match, click `Certify`.

If the fingerprint of this key **DOES NOT** match, **DO NOT
CONTINUE**. Instead delete the file `binaryfate` from the `Downloads`
directory and go back to [section 2.1](#21-download-signing-key).

Enter your password, click `OK`.

![kleo certify
pass](/img/resources/user-guides/en/verify_binary_windows_beginner/verify-win_kleopatra-certify-pinentry.png)

Click `Finish`.

## Hash File Verification

This section will cover downloading the signed file of known good hashes and
verifying its authenticity.

### Download Hash File

In a web browser, go to the [getmonero.org hash page]({{ site.baseurl_root
}}/downloads/hashes.txt). Right click the page, select `Save Page As`.

![hashes right
click](/img/resources/user-guides/en/verify_binary_windows_beginner/verify-win_hashes-getmonero-rightclick.png)

Leave the default location, click `Save`.

![hashes save
file](/img/resources/user-guides/en/verify_binary_windows_beginner/verify-win_hashes-getmonero-savename.png)

### Verify Hash File

In Kleopatra, click the `Decrypt/Verify` button.

![hashes kleo verify
button](/img/resources/user-guides/en/verify_binary_windows_beginner/verify-win_hashes-kleo-verify-button.png)

Navigate to `Downloads` directory. Select `hashes` file, click `Open`.

![hashes kleo open
file](/img/resources/user-guides/en/verify_binary_windows_beginner/verify-win_hashes-kleo-verify-button-filename.png)

Kleopatra will inform you if the files signature is valid.

If the signature is **VALID** you will see this:

![hashes kleo
goodsig](/img/resources/user-guides/en/verify_binary_windows_beginner/verify-win_hashes-kleo-goodsig.png)

If the signature is **INVALID** you will see this:

![hashes kleo
badsig](/img/resources/user-guides/en/verify_binary_windows_beginner/verify-win_hashes-kleo-badsig.png)

If you receive a **VALID** signature, click `Discard` and move on.

If you receive an **INVALID** signature, **DO NOT CONTINUE.** Instead delete
the file `hashes` from the `Downloads` directory and go back to [section
3.1](#31-download-hash-file).

## Binary File Verification

This section will cover downloading the Monero binary and verifying its
authenticity.

### Download Binary

In a web browser, go to the [getmonero.org downloads page]({{
site.baseurl_root }}/downloads/#windows). Select the correct binary for your
system.

![binary
getmonero](/img/resources/user-guides/en/verify_binary_windows_beginner/verify-win_binary-getmonero-windowsfiles.png)

Leave `Save File` selected, click `OK`.

![binary getmonero
save](/img/resources/user-guides/en/verify_binary_windows_beginner/verify-win_binary-getmonero-save-file.png)

Leave the default location, click `Save`.

![binary getmonero save
location](/img/resources/user-guides/en/verify_binary_windows_beginner/verify-win_binary-getmonero-save-location.png)

### Verify Binary

In a file manager, navigate to `Downloads` directory. Open the file `hashes`
with a word processor.

![binary open
hashes.txt](/img/resources/user-guides/en/verify_binary_windows_beginner/verify-win_binary-word-hashfile.png)

Open a terminal (`cmd.exe`).

![binary launch
term](/img/resources/user-guides/en/verify_binary_windows_beginner/verify-win_binary-cmd-launch.png)

Change to the `Downloads` directory with the command: `cd Downloads`.

![binary cmd
cd](/img/resources/user-guides/en/verify_binary_windows_beginner/verify-win_binary-cmd-cd.png)

Calculate the hash of the Monero binary with the command: `certUtil
-hashfile monero-gui-win-x64-v0.16.0.2.zip SHA256` (if you downloaded a
command-line only version, replace `monero-gui-win-x64-v0.16.0.2.zip`
accordingly).

![binary cmd
certutil](/img/resources/user-guides/en/verify_binary_windows_beginner/verify-win_binary-cmd-certutil.png)

Compare the hash from the terminal with the one in the hash file. They
should be the same (spaces can be ignored).

![binary compare
hashes](/img/resources/user-guides/en/verify_binary_windows_beginner/verify-win_binary-word-cmd-compare.png)

If your hash **DOES** match then you are finished with verification! You can
be sure the Monero files you have are authentic. You may extract and
install/use the files normally.

If your hash **DOES NOT** match **DO NOT CONTINUE.** Instead delete the
Monero binary from the `Downloads` directory and go back to [section
4.1](#41-download-binary).
