---
layout: post
title: Monero 0.10.0 "Wolfram Warptangent" Released
summary: A major release of Monero, Wolfram Warptangent, with RingCT, major performance fixes, and more
tags: [releases]
author: Riccardo Spagni (fluffypony)
---

### Overview

This is the next major release of Monero. It adds an initial release of RingCT, which is already live on testnet. The RingCT whitepaper [can be found here](https://lab.getmonero.org/pubs/MRL-0005.pdf). Note that the v4 hard fork has been moved to the beginning of January, 2017, although the v5 hard fork remains set at September, 2017. This is to enable early availability of RingCT transactions on the Monero network, although they will not be enforced as the only possible transaction type until the v5 hard fork.

One of the largest pieces of work were the BlockchainDB performance improvements. This was largely done by warptangent, an early Monero contributor who passed away in March, 2016. His work was completed by Howard "hyc" Chu, and we have named this release after him. We are deeply grateful for all the effort he put in to making Monero what it is today.

Some highlights of this release are:

- major performance improvements, especially on spinning disks
- major space saving gains for the blockchain, despite the performance improvements
- renamed binaries to follow a more logical, consistent convention
- RingCT...obviously:)
- added libunwind support for better crash reporting
- added a key image export and import function for full watch-only wallet functionality
- added support for ARMv8 processors
- added a do\_not\_relay flag for transactions sent to the daemon
- added a sweep\_all command and RPC call for the wallet
- significant fixes and improvements to threading
- add a get\_transfers RPC call
- added transfer tracking to the wallet (lost forever if the wallet cache is deleted)
- added a filter\_by\_height option to get_transfers
- added a --max-concurrency flag for the wallet
- major improvements to ARM performance, especially on newer 64-bit chips
- huge overhaul of cmake and the readme
- added a wallet API for the GUI
- added a fee multiplier and reduced fees
- made monero-wallet-cli more robust when handling corrupt caches
- prompt twice for a wallet password to avoid password issues
- improved daemon 'status' details, including time to the next fork
- more bug fixes than you can shake a stick at
- temporary patch (via a predefined user-agent) for the CSRF attack against monero-wallet-cli's RPC API, as disclosed by Henry Hoggard

### Updating: Blockchain Conversion

Due to the space savings and performance gains it is again highly recommended that you delete the contents of your Monero working directory and sync from scratch. This directory can be found in ~/.bitmonero on Linux and OS X, and on Windows in \Users\username\AppData\Roaming\bitmonero or \ProgramData\bitmonero.

Alternatively, you can use ```blockchain_export``` from your previous install to export your current blockchain, then delete the lmdb folder in your working directory, and finally use ```monero-blockchain-import``` from 0.10.0 to reimport it.

### Contributors for this Release

This release was the direct result of 28 people who worked, largely unpaid and altruistically, to put out 725 commits containing 15 332 new lines of code. We'd like to thank them very much for their time and effort. In no particular order they are:

- redfish
- luigi1111
- moneromooo
- rckngOpossum
- Howard Chu
- Riccardo Spagni
- smooth
- iDunk
- jw
- Casey Marshall
- warptangent
- Jacob Torrey
- Thomas Winget
- guzzi_jones
- Shen Noether
- arb0r
- tobiasw2
- osensei
- Quanah Gibson-Mount
- eiabea
- Ilya Kitaev
- awfulcrawler
- anonimal
- Mike C
- mWo12
- NanoAkron
- dEBRUYNE
- blashyrkh

### Official Download Links

- [Windows, 64-bit](https://downloads.getmonero.org/monero.win.x64.v0-10-0-0.zip)
- [Windows, 32-bit](https://downloads.getmonero.org/monero.win.x86.v0-10-0-0.zip)
- [macOS, 64-bit](https://downloads.getmonero.org/monero.mac.x64.v0-10-0-0.tar.bz2)
- [Linux, 64-bit](https://downloads.getmonero.org/monero.linux.x64.v0-10-0-0.tar.bz2)
- [Linux, 32-bit](https://downloads.getmonero.org/monero.linux.x86.v0-10-0-0.tar.bz2)
- [Linux, ARMv7](https://downloads.getmonero.org/monero.linux.arm7.v0-10-0-0.tar.bz2)

### Download Hashes

If you would like to verify that you have downloaded the correct file, please use the following SHA256 hashes:

- monero.win.x64.v0-10-0-0.zip, 33453727a8a49e07605dfee4b16aeb78816238a0e5c07dbaf19840f56f8d2cd4
- monero.win.x86.v0-10-0-0.zip, b0b7898050e6de2bc2aa443fa783cf275683513c0d3714e66fe00e2c75378af6
- monero.mac.x64.v0-10-0-0.tar.bz2, 204babf52d76e513d1f16527be4b3fb30d3ffbdd7528bf3997e4c1b5b301c9a8
- monero.linux.x64.v0-10-0-0.tar.bz2, 6fe4cdb98d6ea7d2eded79841f70cb64edb840fcb2c84b904a1114424cffc5b1
- monero.linux.x86.v0-10-0-0.tar.bz2, 89c9d2904c0de308eb31695af70084008c5880a2c0628de2fee8e47dd23967ea
- monero.linux.arm7.v0-10-0-0.tar.bz2, cced4cad630e6b5e7131b9d079c3d176dfea79915b9080bdba199508c69e377b