---
layout: post
title: Triptych accepted for publication
summary: Triptych, a zero-knowledge proving system for confidential transactions, is reviewed and accepted for publication
tags: [community]
author: Sarang Noether, Ph.D.
---

Contributing researchers to the [Monero Research Lab](/resources/research-lab/) are pleased to announce that the [Triptych](https://eprint.iacr.org/2020/018) zero-knowledge proving system for confidential transactions has been reviewed and accepted to the [ESORICS CBT 2020](https://deic-web.uab.cat/cbt/cbt2020/) workshop for presentation and publication.

Triptych uses a zero-knowledge proving system to construct a particular type of linkable ring signature that can be used in confidential transaction protocols. Unlike currently-deployed methods like [CLSAG]({{ site.baseurl_root }}/2020/07/31/clsag-audit.html), Triptych proofs grow very slowly (logarithmically) as the size of the transaction anonymity set increases. Triptych transactions also benefit from specialized optimizations that allow for efficient verification.

While we are still investigating technical details required for a future deployment of Triptych into the Monero protocol, it is very exciting to see the paper accepted for publication! We hope that the cryptographic community finds it useful.

### Resources
- [Triptych preprint](https://eprint.iacr.org/2020/018): The original pre-publication paper describing the Triptych algorithms, security model, and security proofs.
- [Proof-of-concept code (Python)](https://github.com/SarangNoether/skunkworks/tree/triptych): An initial proof-of-concept test implementation of the Triptych algorithms, written in Python. _This code has not been reviewed or written with secure implementation in mind! Do not use in production!_
- [Proof-of-concept code (C++)](https://github.com/SarangNoether/monero/tree/triptych): A proof-of-concept test implementation of the Triptych algorithms, written in C++ using the Monero codebase and test framework. _This code has not been reviewed or written with secure implementation in mind! Do not use in production!_
