{% include disclaimer.html translated="yes" translationOutdated="no" %}

### Tabla de contenidos

- [When should I restore a wallet?](#when-should-i-restore-a-wallet)

- [What is needed to restore a wallet from mnemonic
seed?](#what-is-needed-to-restore-a-wallet-from-mnemonic-seed)

- [¿Cuál es la altura de recuperación de el
monedero?](#cuál-es-la-altura-de-recuperación-del-monedero)

- [How to restore a wallet from mnemonic seed on Monero
GUI](#how-to-restore-a-wallet-from-mnemonic-seed-on-monero-gui)

- [How to restore a wallet from mnemonic seed on Monero
CLI](#how-to-restore-a-wallet-from-mnemonic-seed-on-monero-cli)

- [My restored wallet is showing a wrong
balance](#my-restored-wallet-is-showing-a-wrong-balance)

### When should I restore a wallet?

You should restore your @wallet in the following situations: - You lost
access to your wallet (you forgot its password, your wallet file is
corrupted or your device stopped working/is lost).  - You want to create a
copy of your wallet on another device.

This guide will teach you how to restore a Monero wallet from its
@mnemonic-seed.

If you want to restore a wallet from its private keys, please read [this
guide]({{site.baseurl}}/resources/user-guides/restore_from_keys.html).

### What is needed to restore a wallet from mnemonic seed?

A valid Monero mnemonic seed is a phrase with 13, 14, or 25 random words
(multiple languages are supported). Your mnemonic seed has all the
information needed to restore your wallet.

It is also useful to know your wallet restore height or the creation date of
your wallet, since it makes your wallet synchronization faster.

### Where can I find my mnemonic seed?

Most Monero wallets ask the user to write down a mnemonic seed on a paper
backup when a wallet is being created. So it's up to you to remember where
and how you stored your mnemonic seed.

Alternatively, if you still have access to the wallet being restored, you
can usually find your mnemonic seed in a menu with some name like `Seed`,
`Keys`, `Secrets`, or `Master Private Key`.

### What is the wallet restore height?

The wallet restore height is a setting that tells your wallet software at
which block height it should start scanning the blockchain looking for
transactions. Ideally it should be the number of the block which included
the first incoming transaction to your wallet.

If you set a restore height higher than the block height of your first
incoming transaction, your wallet software will not detect all transactions
of your wallet. In consequence, your balance will be wrong and your wallet
software will not work properly.

If you set a restore height lower than the block height of your first
incoming transaction, your wallet software will scan unnecessary blocks. In
consequence, your initial wallet synchronization will take longer than
necessary, but your wallet software will still work.

Therefore, if you're unsure about the block height of your first incoming
transaction, it's always better to set a lower restore height instead of a
higher one.

![restore-height](/img/resources/user-guides/en/restore_account/restore-height.png)

### How to restore a wallet from mnemonic seed on Monero GUI

1) On the main menu, click on `Restore wallet from keys or mnemonic seed`.

![main-menu-restore-wallet](/img/resources/user-guides/en/restore_account/main-menu-restore-wallet.png)

2) The `Restore wallet` page will be displayed:

![restore-from-seed](/img/resources/user-guides/en/restore_account/restore-from-seed.png)

3) On `Wallet name`, enter the name of the wallet you want to create. You
   don't need to use the same name of the wallet being restored.

4) On `Wallet location`, choose where you want the wallet file to be saved.

5) Keep `Restore from seed` selected.

6) On the next field, type your 25 word `mnemonic seed`. It is expected that
   some mnemonic seeds have repeated words, as they work as a verification
   for errors (checksum).

7) Use the field `Seed offset passphrase` to enter your passphrase, if you
   have one. When you enter a passphrase, Monero GUI will use your mnemonic
   seed together with your passphrase to compute a new wallet.

8) The next field allows you to enter a `Restore height`. Even though this
   field is optional, it's not recommended to leave it blank, since setting
   a restore height makes your wallet synchronization faster. Ideally it
   should be the number of the block which included the first incoming
   transaction to your wallet:

![restore-height-field](/img/resources/user-guides/en/restore_account/restore-height-field.png)

Alternatively, you can also enter the date or an estimated date (YYYY-MM-DD
format) of the first incoming transaction:

![restore-height-field-date](/img/resources/user-guides/en/restore_account/restore-height-field-date.png)

After entering your restore height, click on `Next` button.

9) On the next page, give your wallet a strong password and confirm
   it. Since your wallet will hold your private keys and seed, it is really
   important to enter a strong password.

![wallet
password](/img/resources/user-guides/en/restore_account/wallet-password.png)

10) If your wallet is in `Advanced mode`, the `Daemon settings` page will be
    displayed. Here you can choose whether you want to start a local node or
    connect to a remote node. Choose your desired option and click on `Next`
    button.

![daemon
settings](/img/resources/user-guides/en/restore_account/daemon-settings.png)

11) The next page will display a summary of the wallet you are going to
    restore. Click on `Create wallet` button to restore your wallet:

![all set up](/img/resources/user-guides/en/restore_account/all-set-up.png)

### How to restore a wallet from mnemonic seed on Monero CLI

1) Open the terminal on your Monero CLI directory and run the following
   command:

- Linux: `./monero-wallet-cli --restore-deterministic-wallet`

- Windows: `monero-wallet-cli --restore-deterministic-wallet`

2) Next, you will be asked for a wallet file name. Enter the name of the
   wallet you want to create and press `Enter`.

3) Monero CLI will then ask you to give your wallet a password and confirm
   it. Since your wallet will hold your private keys and seed, it is really
   important to enter a strong password.

4) Next, enter your 25 word mnemonic seed.

5) Next, Monero CLI will ask for a `Restore height`. Even though it is
   optional, it's not recommended to leave it blank, since setting a restore
   height makes your wallet synchronization faster. Ideally it should be the
   number of the block which included the first incoming transaction to your
   wallet. Alternatively, you can also enter the date or an estimated date
   (YYYY-MM-DD format) of the first incoming transaction.

6) After you have entered restore height, Monero CLI will then restore your
   wallet and start the wallet synchronization. Please be patient as this
   process may take a while. You will need to wait for it to finish before
   start using your wallet.

7) If you run into any trouble, running `./monero-wallet-cli --help` will
   show you the options available to you at wallet startup. Once you're
   inside your wallet, running the `help` command will list the help for the
   commands available to you within the wallet.

### Mi monedero restaurado muestra un balance erróneo

Este problema usualmente ocurre cuando seleccionas una altura de
restauración que es mayor que la altura del bloque de la primera transacción
entrante a tu monedero. Para resolver este problema, tendrás que cambiar la
altura de restauración del monedero. Por favor, lee [esta
guía]({{site.baseurl}}/resources/user-guides/change-restore-height.html)
para ver instrucciones detalladas sobre como hacer esto.
